docs/plugins.md, before:

---
id: plugins
title: Plugins
---

<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

## allure

Allure reporter

![][1]

Enables Allure reporter.

##### Usage

To start please install `allure-commandline` package (which requires Java 8)

    npm install -g allure-commandline --save-dev

Add this plugin to config file:

```js
"plugins": {
    "allure": {}
}
```

Run tests with allure plugin enabled:

    npx codeceptjs run --plugins allure

By default, allure reports are saved to `output` directory.
Launch Allure server and see the report like on a screenshot above:

    allure serve output

##### Configuration

-   `outputDir` - a directory where allure reports should be stored. Standard output directory is set by default.
-   `enableScreenshotDiffPlugin` - a boolean flag for add screenshot diff to report.
     To attach, tou need to attach three files to the report - "diff.png", "actual.png", "expected.png".
     See [Allure Screenshot Plugin][2]

#### Public API

There are few public API methods which can be accessed from other plugins.

```js
const allure = codeceptjs.container.plugins('allure');
```

`allure` object has following methods:

-   `addAttachment(name, buffer, type)` - add an attachment to current test / suite
-   `addLabel(name, value)` - adds a label to current test
-   `severity(value)` - adds severity label
-   `epic(value)` - adds epic label
-   `feature(value)` - adds feature label
-   `story(value)` - adds story label
-   `issue(value)` - adds issue label
-   `setDescription(description, type)` - sets a description

### Parameters

-   `config`  

## autoDelay

Sometimes it takes some time for a page to respond to user's actions.
Depending on app's performance this can be either slow or fast.

For instance, if you click a button and nothing happens - probably JS event is not attached to this button yet
Also, if you fill field and input validation doesn't accept your input - maybe because you typed value too fast.

This plugin allows to slow down tests execution when a test running too fast.
It puts a tiny delay for before and after action commands.

Commands affected (by default):

-   `click`
-   `fillField`
-   `checkOption`
-   `pressKey`
-   `doubleClick`
-   `rightClick`

##### Configuration

```js
plugins: {
   autoDelay: {
     enabled: true
   }
}
```

Possible config options:

-   `methods`: list of affected commands. Can be overridden
-   `delayBefore`: put a delay before a command. 100ms by default
-   `delayAfter`: put a delay after a command. 200ms by default

### Parameters

-   `config`  

## autoLogin

Logs user in for the first test and reuses session for next tests.
Works by saving cookies into memory or file.
If a session expires automatically logs in again.

> For better development experience cookies can be saved into file, so a session can be reused while writing tests.

#### Usage

1.  Enable this plugin and configure as described below
2.  Define user session names (example: `user`, `editor`, `admin`, etc).
3.  Define how users are logged in and how to check that user is logged in
4.  Use `login` object inside your tests to log in:

```js
// inside a test file
// use login to inject auto-login function
Before(login => {
   login('user'); // login using user session
});

// Alternatively log in for one scenario
Scenario('log me in', (I, login) => {
   login('admin');
   I.see('I am logged in');
});
```

#### Configuration

-   `saveToFile` (default: false) - save cookies to file. Allows to reuse session between execution.
-   `inject` (default: `login`) - name of the login function to use
-   `users` - an array containing different session names and functions to:
    -   `login` - sign in into the system
    -   `check` - check that user is logged in
    -   `fetch` - to get current cookies (by default `I.grabCookie()`)
    -   `restore` - to set cookies (by default `I.amOnPage('/'); I.setCookie(cookie)`)

#### How It Works

1.  `restore` method is executed. It should open a page and set credentials.
2.  `check` method is executed. It should reload a page (so cookies are applied) and check that this page belongs to logged in user.
3.  If `restore` and `check` were not successful, `login` is executed
4.  `login` should fill in login form
5.  After successful login, `fetch` is executed to save cookies into memory or file.

#### Example: Simple login

```js
autoLogin: {
  enabled: true,
  saveToFile: true,
  inject: 'login',
  users: {
    admin: {
      // loginAdmin function is defined in `steps_file.js`
      login: (I) => I.loginAdmin(),
      // if we see `Admin` on page, we assume we are logged in
      check: (I) => {
         I.amOnPage('/');
         I.see('Admin');
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Example: Multiple users

```js
autoLogin: {
  enabled: true,
  saveToFile: true,
  inject: 'loginAs', // use `loginAs` instead of login
  users: {
    user: {
      login: (I) => {
         I.amOnPage('/login');
         I.fillField('email', 'user@site.com');
         I.fillField('password', '123456');
         I.click('Login');
      },
      check: (I) => {
         I.amOnPage('/');
         I.see('User', '.navbar');
      },
    },
    admin: {
      login: (I) => {
         I.amOnPage('/login');
         I.fillField('email', 'admin@site.com');
         I.fillField('password', '123456');
         I.click('Login');
      },
      check: (I) => {
         I.amOnPage('/');
         I.see('Admin', '.navbar');
      },
    },
  }
}
```

#### Example: Keep cookies between tests

If you decide to keep cookies between tests you don't need to save/retrieve cookies between tests.
But you need to login once work until session expires.
For this case, disable `fetch` and `restore` methods.

```js
helpers: {
   WebDriver: {
     // config goes here
     keepCookies: true; // keep cookies for all tests
   }
},
plugins: {
   autoLogin: {
     users: {
       admin: {
         login: (I) => {
           I.amOnPage('/login');
           I.fillField('email', 'admin@site.com');
           I.fillField('password', '123456');
           I.click('Login');
         },
         check: (I) => {
           I.amOnPage('/dashboard');
           I.see('Admin', '.navbar');
         },
         fetch: () => {}, // empty function
         restore: () => {}, // empty funciton
       }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Example: Getting sessions from local storage

If your session is stored in local storage instead of cookies you still can obtain sessions.

```js
plugins: {
   autoLogin: {
    admin: {
      login: (I) => I.loginAsAdmin(),
      check: (I) => I.see('Admin', '.navbar'),
      fetch: (I) => {
        return I.executeScript(() => localStorage.getItem('session_id'));
      },
      restore: (I, session) => {
        I.amOnPage('/');
        I.executeScript((session) => localStorage.setItem('session_id', session), session);
      },
    }
  }
}
```

#### Tips: Using async function in the autoLogin

If you use async functions in the autoLogin plugin, login function should be used with `await` keyword.

```js
autoLogin: {
  enabled: true,
  saveToFile: true,
  inject: 'login',
  users: {
    admin: {
      login: async (I) => {  // If you use async function in the autoLogin plugin
         const phrase = await I.grabTextFrom('#phrase')
         I.fillField('username', 'admin'),
         I.fillField('password', 'password')
         I.fillField('phrase', phrase)
      },
      check: (I) => {
         I.amOnPage('/');
         I.see('Admin');
      },
    }
  }
}
```

```js
Scenario('login', async (I, login) => {
  await login('admin') // you should use `await`
})
```

### Parameters

-   `config`  

## customLocator

Creates a [custom locator][3] by using special attributes in HTML.

If you have a convention to use `data-test-id` or `data-qa` attributes to mark active elements for e2e tests,
you can enable this plugin to simplify matching elements with these attributes:

```js
// replace this:
I.click({ css: '[data-test-id=register_button]');
// with this:
I.click('$register_button');
```

This plugin will create a valid XPath locator for you.

#### Configuration

-   `enabled` (default: `false`) should a locator be enabled
-   `prefix` (default: `$`) sets a prefix for a custom locator.
-   `attribute` (default: `data-test-id`) to set an attribute to be matched.
-   `strategy` (default: `xpath`) actual locator strategy to use in query (`css` or `xpath`).
-   `showActual` (default: false) show in the output actually produced XPath or CSS locator. By default shows custom locator value.

#### Examples:

Using `data-test` attribute with `$` prefix:

```js
// in codecept.conf.js
plugins: {
 customLocator: {
   enabled: true
   attribute: 'data-test'
 }
}
```

In a test:

```js
I.seeElement('$user'); // matches => [data-test=user]
I.click('$sign-up'); // matches => [data-test=sign-up]
```

Using `data-qa` attribute with `=` prefix:

```js
// in codecept.conf.js
plugins: {
 customLocator: {
   enabled: true
   prefix: '=',
   attribute: 'data-qa'
 }
}
```

In a test:

```js
I.seeElement('=user'); // matches => [data-qa=user]
I.click('=sign-up'); // matches => [data-qa=sign-up]
```

### Parameters

-   `config`  

## puppeteerCoverage

Dumps puppeteers code coverage after every test.

##### Configuration

Configuration can either be taken from a corresponding helper (deprecated) or a from plugin config (recommended).

```js
plugins: {
   puppeteerCoverage: {
     enabled: true
   }
}
```

Possible config options:

-   `coverageDir`: directory to dump coverage files
-   `uniqueFileName`: generate a unique filename by adding uuid

    First of all, your mileage may vary!

    To work, you need the client javascript code to be NOT uglified. They need to be built in "development" mode.
    And the end of your tests, you'll get a directory full of coverage per test run.  Now what?
    You'll need to convert the coverage code to something istanbul can read.  Good news is someone wrote the code
    for you (see puppeteer-to-istanbul link below).  Then using istanbul you need to combine the converted
    coverage and create a report.  Good luck!

    Links:

-   [https://github.com/GoogleChrome/puppeteer/blob/v1.12.2/docs/api.md#class-coverage][4]
-   [https://github.com/istanbuljs/puppeteer-to-istanbul][5]
-   [https://github.com/gotwarlost/istanbul][6]

### Parameters

-   `config`  

## retryFailedStep

Retries each failed step in a test.

Add this plugin to config file:

```js
plugins: {
    retryFailedStep: {
       enabled: true
    }
}
```

Run tests with plugin enabled:

    npx codeceptjs run --plugins retryFailedStep

##### Configuration:

-   `retries` - number of retries (by default 5),
-   `when` - function, when to perform a retry (accepts error as parameter)
-   `factor` - The exponential factor to use. Default is 2.
-   `minTimeout` - The number of milliseconds before starting the first retry. Default is 1000.
-   `maxTimeout` - The maximum number of milliseconds between two retries. Default is Infinity.
-   `randomize` - Randomizes the timeouts by multiplying with a factor between 1 to 2. Default is false.
-   `defaultIgnoredSteps` - an array of steps to be ignored for retry. Includes:
    -   `amOnPage`
    -   `wait*`
    -   `send*`
    -   `execute*`
    -   `run*`
    -   `have*`
-   `ignoredSteps` - an array for custom steps to ignore on retry. Use it to append custom steps to ignored list.
    You can use step names or step prefixes ending with `*`. As such, `wait*` will match all steps starting with `wait`.
    To append your own steps to ignore list - copy and paste a default steps list. Regexp values are accepted as well.

##### Example

```js
plugins: {
    retryFailedStep: {
        enabled: true,
        ignoreSteps: [
          'scroll*', // ignore all scroll steps
          /Cookie/, // ignore all steps with a Cookie in it (by regexp)
        ]
    }
}
```

##### Disable Per Test

This plugin can be disabled per test. In this case you will need to stet `I.retry()` to all flaky steps:

Use scenario configuration to disable plugin for a test

```js
Scenario('scenario tite', () => {
   // test goes here
}).config(test => test.disableRetryFailedStep = true)
```

### Parameters

-   `config`  

## screenshotOnFail

Creates screenshot on failure. Screenshot is saved into `output` directory.

Initially this functionality was part of corresponding helper but has been moved into plugin since 1.4

This plugin is **enabled by default**.

##### Configuration

Configuration can either be taken from a corresponding helper (deprecated) or a from plugin config (recommended).

```js
plugins: {
   screenshotOnFail: {
     enabled: true
   }
}
```

Possible config options:

-   `uniqueScreenshotNames`: use unique names for screenshot. Default: false.
-   `fullPageScreenshots`: make full page screenshots. Default: false.

### Parameters

-   `config`  

## stepByStepReport

![step-by-step-report][7]

Generates step by step report for a test.
After each step in a test a screenshot is created. After test executed screenshots are combined into slideshow.
By default, reports are generated only for failed tests.

Run tests with plugin enabled:

    npx codeceptjs run --plugins stepByStepReport

##### Configuration

```js
"plugins": {
   "stepByStepReport": {
     "enabled": true
   }
}
```

Possible config options:

-   `deleteSuccessful`: do not save screenshots for successfully executed tests. Default: true.
-   `animateSlides`: should animation for slides to be used. Default: true.
-   `ignoreSteps`: steps to ignore in report. Array of RegExps is expected. Recommended to skip `grab*` and `wait*` steps.
-   `fullPageScreenshots`: should full page screenshots be used. Default: false.
-   `output`: a directory where reports should be stored. Default: `output`.
-   `screenshotsForAllureReport`: If Allure plugin is enabled this plugin attaches each saved screenshot to allure report. Default: false.

### Parameters

-   `config` **any** 

## wdio

Webdriverio services runner.

This plugin allows to run webdriverio services like:

-   selenium-standalone
-   sauce
-   testingbot
-   browserstack
-   appium

A complete list of all available services can be found on [webdriverio website][8].

###### Setup

1.  Install a webdriverio service
2.  Enable `wdio` plugin in config
3.  Add service name to `services` array inside wdio plugin config.

See examples below:

###### Selenium Standalone Service

Install `@wdio/selenium-standalone-service` package, as [described here][9].
It is important to make sure it is compatible with current webdriverio version.

Enable `wdio` plugin in plugins list and add `selenium-standalone` service:

```js
plugins: {
   wdio: {
       enabled: true,
       services: ['selenium-standalone']
       // additional config for service can be passed here
   }
}
```

Please note, this service can be used with Protractor helper as well!

##### Sauce Service

Install `@wdio/sauce-service` package, as [described here][10].
It is important to make sure it is compatible with current webdriverio version.

Enable `wdio` plugin in plugins list and add `sauce` service:

```js
plugins: {
   wdio: {
       enabled: true,
       services: ['sauce'],
       user: ... ,// saucelabs username
       key: ... // saucelabs api key
       // additional config, from sauce service
   }
}
```

* * *

In the same manner additional services from webdriverio can be installed, enabled, and configured.

#### Configuration

-   `services` - list of enabled services
-   ... - additional configuration passed into services.

### Parameters

-   `config`  

[1]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/220264/45676511-8e052800-bb3a-11e8-8cbb-db5f73de2add.png

[2]: https://github.com/allure-framework/allure2/blob/master/plugins/screen-diff-plugin/README.md

[3]: https://codecept.io/locators#custom-locators

[4]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/puppeteer/blob/v1.12.2/docs/api.md#class-coverage

[5]: https://github.com/istanbuljs/puppeteer-to-istanbul

[6]: https://github.com/gotwarlost/istanbul

[7]: https://codecept.io/img/codeceptjs-slideshow.gif

[8]: https://webdriver.io

[9]: https://webdriver.io/docs/selenium-standalone-service.html

[10]: https://webdriver.io/docs/sauce-service.html

Commit message:

feat(skip|allure): Add ability to pass skip message for Scenario

docs/plugins.md, after:

---
id: plugins
title: Plugins
---

<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

## allure

Allure reporter

![][1]

Enables Allure reporter.

##### Usage

To start please install `allure-commandline` package (which requires Java 8)

    npm install -g allure-commandline --save-dev

Add this plugin to config file:

```js
"plugins": {
    "allure": {}
}
```

Run tests with allure plugin enabled:

    npx codeceptjs run --plugins allure

By default, allure reports are saved to `output` directory.
Launch Allure server and see the report like on a screenshot above:

    allure serve output

If you skip your test throught method `Skip({message:''})`, than message for skipping will be added to allure report.

(https://codecept.io/img/Allure-skip-msg.png)

##### Configuration

-   `outputDir` - a directory where allure reports should be stored. Standard output directory is set by default.
-   `enableScreenshotDiffPlugin` - a boolean flag for add screenshot diff to report.
     To attach, tou need to attach three files to the report - "diff.png", "actual.png", "expected.png".
     See [Allure Screenshot Plugin][2]

#### Public API

There are few public API methods which can be accessed from other plugins.

```js
const allure = codeceptjs.container.plugins('allure');
```

`allure` object has following methods:

-   `addAttachment(name, buffer, type)` - add an attachment to current test / suite
-   `addLabel(name, value)` - adds a label to current test
-   `severity(value)` - adds severity label
-   `epic(value)` - adds epic label
-   `feature(value)` - adds feature label
-   `story(value)` - adds story label
-   `issue(value)` - adds issue label
-   `setDescription(description, type)` - sets a description

### Parameters

-   `config`  

## autoDelay

Sometimes it takes some time for a page to respond to user's actions.
Depending on app's performance this can be either slow or fast.

For instance, if you click a button and nothing happens - probably JS event is not attached to this button yet
Also, if you fill field and input validation doesn't accept your input - maybe because you typed value too fast.

This plugin allows to slow down tests execution when a test running too fast.
It puts a tiny delay for before and after action commands.

Commands affected (by default):

-   `click`
-   `fillField`
-   `checkOption`
-   `pressKey`
-   `doubleClick`
-   `rightClick`

##### Configuration

```js
plugins: {
   autoDelay: {
     enabled: true
   }
}
```

Possible config options:

-   `methods`: list of affected commands. Can be overridden
-   `delayBefore`: put a delay before a command. 100ms by default
-   `delayAfter`: put a delay after a command. 200ms by default

### Parameters

-   `config`  

## autoLogin

Logs user in for the first test and reuses session for next tests.
Works by saving cookies into memory or file.
If a session expires automatically logs in again.

> For better development experience cookies can be saved into file, so a session can be reused while writing tests.

#### Usage

1.  Enable this plugin and configure as described below
2.  Define user session names (example: `user`, `editor`, `admin`, etc).
3.  Define how users are logged in and how to check that user is logged in
4.  Use `login` object inside your tests to log in:

```js
// inside a test file
// use login to inject auto-login function
Before(login => {
   login('user'); // login using user session
});

// Alternatively log in for one scenario
Scenario('log me in', (I, login) => {
   login('admin');
   I.see('I am logged in');
});
```

#### Configuration

-   `saveToFile` (default: false) - save cookies to file. Allows to reuse session between execution.
-   `inject` (default: `login`) - name of the login function to use
-   `users` - an array containing different session names and functions to:
    -   `login` - sign in into the system
    -   `check` - check that user is logged in
    -   `fetch` - to get current cookies (by default `I.grabCookie()`)
    -   `restore` - to set cookies (by default `I.amOnPage('/'); I.setCookie(cookie)`)

#### How It Works

1.  `restore` method is executed. It should open a page and set credentials.
2.  `check` method is executed. It should reload a page (so cookies are applied) and check that this page belongs to logged in user.
3.  If `restore` and `check` were not successful, `login` is executed
4.  `login` should fill in login form
5.  After successful login, `fetch` is executed to save cookies into memory or file.

#### Example: Simple login

```js
autoLogin: {
  enabled: true,
  saveToFile: true,
  inject: 'login',
  users: {
    admin: {
      // loginAdmin function is defined in `steps_file.js`
      login: (I) => I.loginAdmin(),
      // if we see `Admin` on page, we assume we are logged in
      check: (I) => {
         I.amOnPage('/');
         I.see('Admin');
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Example: Multiple users

```js
autoLogin: {
  enabled: true,
  saveToFile: true,
  inject: 'loginAs', // use `loginAs` instead of login
  users: {
    user: {
      login: (I) => {
         I.amOnPage('/login');
         I.fillField('email', 'user@site.com');
         I.fillField('password', '123456');
         I.click('Login');
      },
      check: (I) => {
         I.amOnPage('/');
         I.see('User', '.navbar');
      },
    },
    admin: {
      login: (I) => {
         I.amOnPage('/login');
         I.fillField('email', 'admin@site.com');
         I.fillField('password', '123456');
         I.click('Login');
      },
      check: (I) => {
         I.amOnPage('/');
         I.see('Admin', '.navbar');
      },
    },
  }
}
```

#### Example: Keep cookies between tests

If you decide to keep cookies between tests you don't need to save/retrieve cookies between tests.
But you need to login once work until session expires.
For this case, disable `fetch` and `restore` methods.

```js
helpers: {
   WebDriver: {
     // config goes here
     keepCookies: true; // keep cookies for all tests
   }
},
plugins: {
   autoLogin: {
     users: {
       admin: {
         login: (I) => {
           I.amOnPage('/login');
           I.fillField('email', 'admin@site.com');
           I.fillField('password', '123456');
           I.click('Login');
         },
         check: (I) => {
           I.amOnPage('/dashboard');
           I.see('Admin', '.navbar');
         },
         fetch: () => {}, // empty function
         restore: () => {}, // empty funciton
       }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Example: Getting sessions from local storage

If your session is stored in local storage instead of cookies you still can obtain sessions.

```js
plugins: {
   autoLogin: {
    admin: {
      login: (I) => I.loginAsAdmin(),
      check: (I) => I.see('Admin', '.navbar'),
      fetch: (I) => {
        return I.executeScript(() => localStorage.getItem('session_id'));
      },
      restore: (I, session) => {
        I.amOnPage('/');
        I.executeScript((session) => localStorage.setItem('session_id', session), session);
      },
    }
  }
}
```

#### Tips: Using async function in the autoLogin

If you use async functions in the autoLogin plugin, login function should be used with `await` keyword.

```js
autoLogin: {
  enabled: true,
  saveToFile: true,
  inject: 'login',
  users: {
    admin: {
      login: async (I) => {  // If you use async function in the autoLogin plugin
         const phrase = await I.grabTextFrom('#phrase')
         I.fillField('username', 'admin'),
         I.fillField('password', 'password')
         I.fillField('phrase', phrase)
      },
      check: (I) => {
         I.amOnPage('/');
         I.see('Admin');
      },
    }
  }
}
```

```js
Scenario('login', async (I, login) => {
  await login('admin') // you should use `await`
})
```

### Parameters

-   `config`  

## customLocator

Creates a [custom locator][3] by using special attributes in HTML.

If you have a convention to use `data-test-id` or `data-qa` attributes to mark active elements for e2e tests,
you can enable this plugin to simplify matching elements with these attributes:

```js
// replace this:
I.click({ css: '[data-test-id=register_button]');
// with this:
I.click('$register_button');
```

This plugin will create a valid XPath locator for you.

#### Configuration

-   `enabled` (default: `false`) should a locator be enabled
-   `prefix` (default: `$`) sets a prefix for a custom locator.
-   `attribute` (default: `data-test-id`) to set an attribute to be matched.
-   `strategy` (default: `xpath`) actual locator strategy to use in query (`css` or `xpath`).
-   `showActual` (default: false) show in the output actually produced XPath or CSS locator. By default shows custom locator value.

#### Examples:

Using `data-test` attribute with `$` prefix:

```js
// in codecept.conf.js
plugins: {
 customLocator: {
   enabled: true
   attribute: 'data-test'
 }
}
```

In a test:

```js
I.seeElement('$user'); // matches => [data-test=user]
I.click('$sign-up'); // matches => [data-test=sign-up]
```

Using `data-qa` attribute with `=` prefix:

```js
// in codecept.conf.js
plugins: {
 customLocator: {
   enabled: true
   prefix: '=',
   attribute: 'data-qa'
 }
}
```

In a test:

```js
I.seeElement('=user'); // matches => [data-qa=user]
I.click('=sign-up'); // matches => [data-qa=sign-up]
```

### Parameters

-   `config`  

## puppeteerCoverage

Dumps puppeteers code coverage after every test.

##### Configuration

Configuration can either be taken from a corresponding helper (deprecated) or a from plugin config (recommended).

```js
plugins: {
   puppeteerCoverage: {
     enabled: true
   }
}
```

Possible config options:

-   `coverageDir`: directory to dump coverage files
-   `uniqueFileName`: generate a unique filename by adding uuid

    First of all, your mileage may vary!

    To work, you need the client javascript code to be NOT uglified. They need to be built in "development" mode.
    And the end of your tests, you'll get a directory full of coverage per test run.  Now what?
    You'll need to convert the coverage code to something istanbul can read.  Good news is someone wrote the code
    for you (see puppeteer-to-istanbul link below).  Then using istanbul you need to combine the converted
    coverage and create a report.  Good luck!

    Links:

-   [https://github.com/GoogleChrome/puppeteer/blob/v1.12.2/docs/api.md#class-coverage][4]
-   [https://github.com/istanbuljs/puppeteer-to-istanbul][5]
-   [https://github.com/gotwarlost/istanbul][6]

### Parameters

-   `config`  

## retryFailedStep

Retries each failed step in a test.

Add this plugin to config file:

```js
plugins: {
    retryFailedStep: {
       enabled: true
    }
}
```

Run tests with plugin enabled:

    npx codeceptjs run --plugins retryFailedStep

##### Configuration:

-   `retries` - number of retries (by default 5),
-   `when` - function, when to perform a retry (accepts error as parameter)
-   `factor` - The exponential factor to use. Default is 2.
-   `minTimeout` - The number of milliseconds before starting the first retry. Default is 1000.
-   `maxTimeout` - The maximum number of milliseconds between two retries. Default is Infinity.
-   `randomize` - Randomizes the timeouts by multiplying with a factor between 1 to 2. Default is false.
-   `defaultIgnoredSteps` - an array of steps to be ignored for retry. Includes:
    -   `amOnPage`
    -   `wait*`
    -   `send*`
    -   `execute*`
    -   `run*`
    -   `have*`
-   `ignoredSteps` - an array for custom steps to ignore on retry. Use it to append custom steps to ignored list.
    You can use step names or step prefixes ending with `*`. As such, `wait*` will match all steps starting with `wait`.
    To append your own steps to ignore list - copy and paste a default steps list. Regexp values are accepted as well.

##### Example

```js
plugins: {
    retryFailedStep: {
        enabled: true,
        ignoreSteps: [
          'scroll*', // ignore all scroll steps
          /Cookie/, // ignore all steps with a Cookie in it (by regexp)
        ]
    }
}
```

##### Disable Per Test

This plugin can be disabled per test. In this case you will need to stet `I.retry()` to all flaky steps:

Use scenario configuration to disable plugin for a test

```js
Scenario('scenario tite', () => {
   // test goes here
}).config(test => test.disableRetryFailedStep = true)
```

### Parameters

-   `config`  

## screenshotOnFail

Creates screenshot on failure. Screenshot is saved into `output` directory.

Initially this functionality was part of corresponding helper but has been moved into plugin since 1.4

This plugin is **enabled by default**.

##### Configuration

Configuration can either be taken from a corresponding helper (deprecated) or a from plugin config (recommended).

```js
plugins: {
   screenshotOnFail: {
     enabled: true
   }
}
```

Possible config options:

-   `uniqueScreenshotNames`: use unique names for screenshot. Default: false.
-   `fullPageScreenshots`: make full page screenshots. Default: false.

### Parameters

-   `config`  

## stepByStepReport

![step-by-step-report][7]

Generates step by step report for a test.
After each step in a test a screenshot is created. After test executed screenshots are combined into slideshow.
By default, reports are generated only for failed tests.

Run tests with plugin enabled:

    npx codeceptjs run --plugins stepByStepReport

##### Configuration

```js
"plugins": {
   "stepByStepReport": {
     "enabled": true
   }
}
```

Possible config options:

-   `deleteSuccessful`: do not save screenshots for successfully executed tests. Default: true.
-   `animateSlides`: should animation for slides to be used. Default: true.
-   `ignoreSteps`: steps to ignore in report. Array of RegExps is expected. Recommended to skip `grab*` and `wait*` steps.
-   `fullPageScreenshots`: should full page screenshots be used. Default: false.
-   `output`: a directory where reports should be stored. Default: `output`.
-   `screenshotsForAllureReport`: If Allure plugin is enabled this plugin attaches each saved screenshot to allure report. Default: false.

### Parameters

-   `config` **any** 

## wdio

Webdriverio services runner.

This plugin allows to run webdriverio services like:

-   selenium-standalone
-   sauce
-   testingbot
-   browserstack
-   appium

A complete list of all available services can be found on [webdriverio website][8].

###### Setup

1.  Install a webdriverio service
2.  Enable `wdio` plugin in config
3.  Add service name to `services` array inside wdio plugin config.

See examples below:

###### Selenium Standalone Service

Install `@wdio/selenium-standalone-service` package, as [described here][9].
It is important to make sure it is compatible with current webdriverio version.

Enable `wdio` plugin in plugins list and add `selenium-standalone` service:

```js
plugins: {
   wdio: {
       enabled: true,
       services: ['selenium-standalone']
       // additional config for service can be passed here
   }
}
```

Please note, this service can be used with Protractor helper as well!

##### Sauce Service

Install `@wdio/sauce-service` package, as [described here][10].
It is important to make sure it is compatible with current webdriverio version.

Enable `wdio` plugin in plugins list and add `sauce` service:

```js
plugins: {
   wdio: {
       enabled: true,
       services: ['sauce'],
       user: ... ,// saucelabs username
       key: ... // saucelabs api key
       // additional config, from sauce service
   }
}
```

* * *

In the same manner additional services from webdriverio can be installed, enabled, and configured.

#### Configuration

-   `services` - list of enabled services
-   ... - additional configuration passed into services.

### Parameters

-   `config`  

[1]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/220264/45676511-8e052800-bb3a-11e8-8cbb-db5f73de2add.png

[2]: https://github.com/allure-framework/allure2/blob/master/plugins/screen-diff-plugin/README.md

[3]: https://codecept.io/locators#custom-locators

[4]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/puppeteer/blob/v1.12.2/docs/api.md#class-coverage

[5]: https://github.com/istanbuljs/puppeteer-to-istanbul

[6]: https://github.com/gotwarlost/istanbul

[7]: https://codecept.io/img/codeceptjs-slideshow.gif

[8]: https://webdriver.io

[9]: https://webdriver.io/docs/selenium-standalone-service.html

[10]: https://webdriver.io/docs/sauce-service.html
